Docs/subscriptions (#1437)
neo4j/graphql: docs/modules/ROOT/pages/subscriptions/plugins/index.adoc

[[plugins]]
= Subscription Plugins

WARNING: Subscriptions are only available as a beta, its API may change in the future. It is not recommended to use subscriptions in production environments.

> Plugins will enable subscriptions in `@neo4j/graphql` and allow to easily connect to different brokers. This is required to run a production
> system with  xref::subscriptions/scaling.adoc[horizontal scaling].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Plugins are used to enable subscriptions in `@neo4j/graphql` and to allow easy connection to different message brokers. This is required to run a production
system with xref::subscriptions/scaling.adoc[horizontal scaling].
```

== Official plugins
The following plugins are supported officially by `@neo4j/graphql`:

> * **xref::subscriptions/plugins/single-instance.adoc[Single Instance]** - A plugin for development, exported directly from the library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **xref::subscriptions/plugins/single-instance.adoc[Single Instance]** - A plugin for use within a single instance of the GraphQL library, exported directly from the library.
```

* **xref::subscriptions/plugins/amqp.adoc[AMQP]** - Connect to AMQP brokers such as link:https://www.rabbitmq.com/[RabbitMQ].

== Create a custom plugin

> If none of the existing plugins is valid for your use case, you can create new plugin to connect to any broker you may need. To do this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If none of the existing plugins is valid for your use case, you can create a new plugin to connect to any broker you may need. To do this
```

you need to create a new class defining your plugin. This class needs to contain the following:

* An `EventEmitter` property called `events` that should emit an event everytime the broker sends a message.
* A `publish` method that will publish a new event to the broker.
For instance, if we wanted to subscribe using link:https://redis.io/[redis]:

```javascript
// Note: This is an example of a custom plugin and not a production ready redis plugin
class CustomRedisPlugin {
    constructor(redisClient) {
        this.client = redisClient;
        this.events = new EventEmitter();
    }

>     // This method connects to Redis and sends messages to the eventEmitter when receiving events.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // This method connects to redis and sends messages to the eventEmitter when receiving events.
```

        await this.subscriber.connect();
        await this.publisher.connect();

        await this.subscriber.subscribe("graphql-subscriptions", (message) => {
          const eventMeta = JSON.parse(message);
          this.events.emit(eventMeta.event, eventMeta); // Emits a new event when receiving a new message from redis
        });
    }

    async publish(eventMeta) {
        await this.publisher.publish("graphql-subscriptions", JSON.stringify(eventMeta)); // Sends a message to redis
    }
}

const client = createClient(); // From https://www.npmjs.com/package/redis
const redisSubscriptions = new CustomRedisPlugin(client)
await redisSubscriptions.connect();

const neoSchema = new Neo4jGraphQL({
    typeDefs,
    driver,
    plugins: {
        subscriptions: redisSubscriptions,
    },
});
```

Note that, like in the previous example, extra properties and methods are often needed to handle the connection to the broker. As long as the messages
are sent to the broker in the `publish` method and that these messages are received and then emitted through the `events` property, the subscriptions
will be properly handled.

== Using Typescript

> If using Typescript, you may import the interface `Neo4jGraphQLSubscriptionsPlugin` to implement you own plugin:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If using Typescript, you may import the interface `Neo4jGraphQLSubscriptionsPlugin` to implement your own plugin:
```

```typescript
class CustomRedisPlugin implements Neo4jGraphQLSubscriptionsPlugin {}
```

== Note about event orders
Events are sent to the plugin in order, however, order is not guaranteed once these events have been broadcasted through a broker.

> For cases when ordering is important, subscriptions payload contain a field `timestamp`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For cases when ordering is important, the subscriptions payload contains a field `timestamp`.
```
